A fundamental knowledge of all planar studies, whether elemental, fiendish, or fringe planes found straddling the prime material, one thing is always true: the planes resonate with a magic that is both familiar and other, and through divination they can be detected.

What follows is a horribly complex set of magical equations that appear to be the basis for a highly specific variation of the detect magic spell. Providing that one modified and cast such a spell, it would allow the caster to sense and identify the planar energies emitted by an object, and identify them.

The nature of planar magic is not inherently different from the magics we utilize in our own plane, though they can exert their own pressures upon outside magics to create conformity to a larger environmental quality, they are generally compatible in all ways that matter.

This is because all magic has an inherent frequency within its energies, whether actively channeled or passively existing within a world. In the case of the planes, they are rife with latent magic which provides a sort of baseline "noise" for the plane.

Many things in these planes resonate with that frequency, and some of those things continue to resonate even if removed from the plane. This is the same for our own material plane, though it generally requires the presence of magic from an outside source, as naturally occurring magic is rare in the prime material.

Most interesting is the fact that crystalline minerals have the highest tendency to maintain or resonate with planar harmonics. This has some potentially powerful implications, and as I have found several such items during my extraplanar forays, they now rest in my private collection for later use and study.
^PlanarResonanceCrystals