In truth, I have never quite liked this term. It is a rare thing to distill any material to its purest parts even with a bevy of arcane secrets to work with. Yet it is as accurate any term will be, and I will yield to its use here.

The creation quintessence, especially fringe plane quintessence, requires the collection of planar pearls (my term), and the ablation of its nacreous layers, which in turn must be woven into a composite of layers from three sources.

This requires a carefully tuned apparatus capable of threading large amounts of planar energy into the pearls to begin the ablation process, with a third medium serving as the final collection point for the quintessence. This final deposit medium must of course also resonate with planar energy of its own, but not the same as those being layered atop it.

The process is something I have been working on in my spare time for years now, and I am able to do it in only the sparest amounts. Yet even this tiny yield of pure planar energy is incredible. I have used it as a seed material for my crystal gardens, as it is highly responsive to energies matching the energies contained within its layers.

Naturally, the process yields what my colleagues would consider quintessence but it is not: whatever pure planar potential is collected in composite is laid atop a medium that is itself anything but quintessential, thereby sullying the final result.

But such pedantry has no place in my personal notes, despite how many lines I have now dedicated to my overopinionated griping. Perhaps when all is said and done I will begin a grand argument at the next symposium I attend, and see what comes of it.