The magnificent mansion is an ever useful spell, its design is clean, classic, and in many ways a feat of magical engineering. Creating a free floating demi-plane with countless magical servants and mutable space is nothing short of a masterstroke. However, I do not need much of this, and as is oft my failing, I have chosen to tinker with it, to make it my own and serve my particular needs.

I would claim I want to make it better, but I'm not certain that is what I'd call this.

The initial steps were fairly simple: I removed the servants, and the code for mutable layouts, I could simply reform the demi-plane if I need a different configuration, and the servants are too simplistic to be of any true use. This alone would buy me the overhead needed to make more extensive modifications to the underlying magic.

By introducing resonant components as a necessary but not consumed material, I could use them as an anchor around which the new mansion would be formed. By envisioning the mechanisms necessary to execute planar energy threading, and the necessary structures to redirect and consume that energy I could create a spell capable of feeding itself to create a demi-plane that would not collapse after a day.

Tuning the size and flow of the magic was of course the hardest part, but I was able supplement this formation by adding additional materials in the form of harmonious quintessence which was a sort seed material to kick the initial formation forward.

Using this, my plan is to creation accretion apparatus and resonant crystal farms that will allow me to steadily create larger and larger anchoring crystals on which to hang this planar sanctum, as I've come to call it.

I have not discovered the upper limits of these anchoring crystals yet, nor do I know how long they can sustain my sanctum, but if my figures are correct they should be able to sustain a sanctum nearly indefinitely as long as their housings or the crystals themselves aren't damaged.